Very Little is known publically about the artist, Peter Karlik, other than that he is a First Nations artist from the Rankin Inlet in Nunavut, and that his carvings are displayed in museums and galleries across Canada. The only immediately available biography and as well description of the art in question is as follows: 

"Pierre Karlik
Inuit
Rankin Inlet, Nunavut Territory, Canada
(1931- )


Pierre was commissioned in 1974 by the National Museum of Man, Ottawa to create a sculpture personifying the lifestyle of contemporary Inuit; the unveiling took place in September 1976." (INAC, 1997)


He was born in Nunavut, but spent some time in Manitoba when he was diagnosed with Polio at a young age (citation). It is imjportant to understand that this is where many Inuit had interactions with white beaurocracy and were able to see how a large number of both races would interact with each other. Other artists found themselves at Saint Theresa's Hospital as well, so the subculture that grew within held aspects of both groups. 

It is the experience of mingling cultures that shapes much of his work. He returned to Nunavut and his interest in carving, as well as politics, grew. This,as well as his renown and love for those around him, were addressed in the aknowledgement of his death in the Nunavut Hansard (citation). It as well makes the claim that he was visited by most members of government who visited Nunavut, and that he had a sort of personal connection with Ottawa, despite being so far removed from it. (citation)

He was an ambassador for his people, and his work and actions were so influential that it has been a centrepiece of the Canadian Museum of History for over 40 years. This model is a way of remembering and honouring his legacy as it deserves to be.



Also underneath the statue is this inscription and poem:

Inuit Today
1974
Pierre Karlik (1931 - )
Rankin Inlet, Nunavut
Grey Stone
CMCC IV-C-5194

Please look at the sculpture "Inuit Ublumi"

The Inuit today - Most now live in permanent settlements;
The Inuit today - Are living in one settlement all winter long instead of moving around as they traditionally did;
The Inuit today - Their children are now learning to speak English;
The Inuit today - Are now seeing and experiencing many new things;
The Inuit today - Don't understand many things that are happening;
The Inuit today - Are searching for ways to be happy and contented;
The Inuit today - Are no longer able to live their traditional lifestyle;
The Inuit today - Are still unable to fit into the white man's lifestyle.

(Karlik, 1974)
